Thank you for participating in
the study to design an app for
promoting healthy sleep and
habits using advanced technology
and sleep research. Do you have
any questions concerning the
participant informations in
sheet or consent sheet?
So yeah, I this is Samir. I'm
currently doing my masters in
pharmaceutical science with
management.
Umm.
At Kingston university.
So yeah, I'm I have like sleep
related like I've been facing
sleep related problems since.
I guess three to four years now.
Earlier.
Yeah. And I've had many, you
know, psychiatrist and many,
Umm.
Look, look, look. A bit
questions are you.
many, many.
I just. OK. OK.
Umm.
We will start the interview. Is
it OK if I record this now?
Yeah, sure.
So can you tell me about your
typical sleep schedule on we
weekdays?
Yeah, actually on weekdays I go
to bed, I try to go to bed by 11
or 12, but I find it very it's
like I find it very hard to fall
Umm.
asleep, so it takes around one
or two hours of like to actually
sleep. If I go to bed at 11, I
sleep at I maybe at one.
So by then I just do some
scrolling or watch some stuff on
you do what? Like see what some
stream some web shows.
And by one, I fall asleep.
And in the morning, I usually
wake up between 7:00 to 9:00 AM.
And when I wake up, I'm like,
I'm feel a bit groggy.
So I'm not at my best.
Umm.
Uh. more than I get up, so yeah.
And about weekends, can you tell
me about that? Like the
weekends? Is it the same for the
weekends or it's like it's even
From being a weekend also is the
same thing because yeah, it's
worse for the meetings?
it's a it's same for weekdays as
well as weekends because I have
to go on weekends and working on
weekdays I'm attending
universities.
Umm, alright.
So it's like 7 days. The same
for me. Like, yeah.
I'm always sleep deprived.
That's what I feel.
And also.
Like can you do you have an ID
of how much sleep are you
getting in on an average?
On an average, I get around six
to around 6 to 7 hours of sleep.
Umm.
But I think it's not, uh,
quality sleep which I'm looking
for like I don't get any sound
sleep.
And how do you usually wake up
in the morning? Do you feel
refreshed or tired?
Uh, when I wake up, I don't feel
refreshed at all. I'm like,
usually tired and frustrated.
I'm like groggy. My mood mood is
not good. So to deal with that,
I like guy, consume a lot of
coffee and caffeine and energy
drinks.
To get me through the day.
And what are some factors that
impact your ability to fall
asleep or stay asleep?
I think the energy drinks and
caffeine consumption, it's
affecting me for a long time
now.
So I'm planning to quit the like
actually I've started like I've
it's like today is my second
day. I'm I've not consumed any
caffeine as of now. So so it's
my second day and I'm having a
lot of headaches and I'm feeling
a little. I'm feeling dizziness
and fatigue.
Throughout the day, but somehow
I'm managing it. I'm like taking
a lot of fluids. I'm consuming
lot of fluids and like yeah.
I'm somehow trying to manage it.
So are there any other factors
like noise? It can be noise.
Your friends around social
pressure, you know to stay awake
late at night.
Umm, no, I don't think so. That
thing is like currently
affecting me because.
The place where I'm staying, I
don't socialize much, so yeah.
And also like it can be also
phone like room. Do you have an
That is you.
habit going to like when you
fall asleep? Do you have use
your phone usually?
Yeah, like before sleeping, I
like. I like to watch some
YouTube videos.
RI seen some Netflix, Netflix or
web shows that please.
Alright, alright.
Yeah.
Have you ever experienced any
negative effects of like lack of
sleep such as difficulty
concentrating or feeling
irritated or you know, like it
can be anything?
You are like a because of lack
of sleep because of my sleep
deprivation. I'm having a like
very hard time concentrating on
my projects and assignments and
my studies and like very hard
time like focusing and I'm
facing a lot of anxiety shoes.
Lack of energy as well.
I feel a bit like all the time.
I'm tired since morning to the
evening. I don't know.
So yeah.
The past two, three months have
been very difficult for me.
Umm.
I think it's all because of
sleep deprivation.
Have you ever used an app or
other technology to improve your
sleep habits?
Actually.
If so, what was your experience
like?
Yeah, actually at the moment I'm
trying meditation.
So I'm using the App Balance app
for meditation. They have a lot
of different types of meditation
like wake up meditation and
energize your more meditation.
So so they have different
categories of meditation.
So I'm using that at the moment
but.
It's not helping me because,
like meditation doesn't give you
instant effect immediate
effects.
So Yahoo, hopefully I'm waiting.
Like if I get results in the
future.
And do you have any specific
goals related to improving your
sleep habits?
Yeah. So to improve my sleep
habits, I'm taking melatonin.
And I've stopped the caffeine
consumption like completely. I'm
going cold Turkey. So this is my
second day. I'm without I I
haven't had any coffee or any
energy drink in any like, no
caffeine consumption in any
form.
Umm.
So yeah, it's been. It's my
second day today. But yeah, I'm
facing a little bit of headaches
and annotated like something
So do you wanna have so it's
like, do you know if do you
about law.
wanna have like the constant
sleeping, should you you wanna
wake up like exact on the same
time having 8 hours of sleep
every day. So that's like do you
have any goals related to that
thing as well?
Yeah, I actually, I don't know
how much optimal sleep I require
my body needs.
Umm.
So if I can have some app which
can track like how much optimal
sleep is important for me?
Because it's like I think it's
different for everyone, like
some some people are bored with
like you know they can function
well on five hours sleep. Some
people require 7 hours of sleep
to function well to be more
productive the next day.
So actually I don't know
optimally how much sleep is
required for myself, but yeah,
if I can find some help through
the app or something like that,
I'm very much open.
To using it like which can track
my sleep and how good like the
quality of my sleep my rent
cycle.
So yeah, I'm open to it.
So that's like what features
would you like to see in an app
designed to promote healthy
sleeping habits?
The first of all, first I need
some app which can like like
tell me like give me the
information about my optimal
sleep like even if you mean
sleep extra like extra hours.
So still during the next day, we
feel very lazy, so I need
something like that which sells
me like how much optimal sleep
is required by my body to wake
up like the next day refresh.
So first feature I need that
like what that is the most
important feature I'm looking
for.
And the other feature which I am
looking for is like if it can
like you know help me stay calm
or something like that like some
meditation or something,
anything which can you know
before sleeping it can like help
me stay calm like relax my body.
So something like that.
So it's like you, but something
like meditation or something.
Yeah, you can say that.
Like by annual wipes like
something.
My uh.
Yeah. Yeah, and little vibes are
white noise or something like
that, which can help me, you
know.
Sleep better uh during the night
and track my sleep as well.
But the most important thing is
like I need like it, it needs to
like, you know track like was my
sleep quality or not. So I'll
Umm.
come to know like what changes I
need to make in my life so you
know.
In my daily routine so that I
can sleep better because I think
like being sleep deprived now
like for like so many years, I
think like, you know, sleep is
the most important thing. It's
the best thing.
Or you to be more productive or
to be functioning well the next
day and doing well in your life.
In your career.
And how do you currently use
technology in your daily life
and how comfortable are you with
using new technology?
Ohh, if it's like user friendly.
If the technology is user
friendly and you know it's very
handy to use. So yeah I'm very
much comfortable using it but if
it's difficult then you know.
Then I think.
It depends on the user interface
and the features they provide.
And also I need to see like you
know results like. I'm very
impatient.
So I need results like you know.
Uh, little bit quicker results.
OK.
So do you often like do you set
multiple alarms for you when you
wake up?
Yeah, like I said, I put on two
or three alarms.
Uh, in order to wake up in the
morning?
So that's how I managed to.
And is it easy?
And is it easier for you to wake
up?
It's very diff.
It's really difficult for me to
wake up in the morning. It's
very difficult.
So we'll would you like an smart
alarm, which in which like wakes
you in your lighter phase of the
time cycles rather than just on
the random time?
Yeah, like that would be great.
Something like that would be
great.
And do you have any concerns
about using technology such as
machine learning, AI and
biometrics to improve your
sleep? If so, what are they?
If it's helping me, if it will
help me improve my sleep then
I'm very much open to it.
I have all my support to it.
So it like your concerns can be
like the data, it can be
incorrect. So it you know that's
all.
So do you have like concerns
regarding that that thing?
Yeah, if the data is like, yeah,
The thing is.
If it's ten to making errors, so
yeah, but like machine learning
is like it learn from the error
like everything.
Umm.
Sorry, I'm very much open to it
because because right now I'm at
this situation like, you know,
anything which improves my sleep
quality. I'm open to it.
I'm that stage of at that stage
of my life at the moment.
And how important is it to wake
up feeling refreshed and
energized in the morning?
The I think that's the most
important thing, because if you
don't sleep properly.
And you know, you wake up
feeling groggy and not energize,
unmotivated. You feel like going
back to the bed.
So if like it's very important
to take on the date like to be
Umm.
fresh to take on the day to take
on the daily task and it it, you
know, it affects a lot of like
daily activities like you can't
focus on work, you can't focus
on your academics.
Like put sleep is.
Everything.
Alright.
What are some of the challenges
you face when it comes
maintaining healthy sleep
habits?
Ohh. One of the challenges I
face is like I don't have a
proper sleeping.
Schedule like I like. I don't
know. Like usually I don't have
a proper sleeping schedule. I go
to bed at anytime sometime. It's
10 sometime it's 12 sometime
it's 1231.
So I think I need to maintain a
proper timing like of sleeping
and waking up.
So I think that will help me
like so I need something which
will you know.
Uh, give me an alarm or give me
a notification. So like you
Mm-hmm.
know, now it's the time to
sleep.
Now is the time to wake up, and
now you have like, if you sleep
now and you wake up now. So
these many hours of sleep will
So yeah.
give you like, you know proper.
Uh, fully sound. Sleep.
So like you will and won't it be
better if the application sends
you a notification prior like
when's the right time to take
the last? Like last think of 13
or caffeine intake like whatever
the preferences you are chosen.
Actually, a caffeine has been
affecting my mental health.
To a large extent, as I think
because you know I'm facing a
lot of being.
Like generalized anxiety, being
diagnosed with generalized
anxiety disorder, which is GAD.
So I think caffeine like you
know, it just amplifies my
anxiety.
Yeah, that's what I'm saying. So
it's like, you know, for the
So.
people who are consuming
caffeine and are unable to
Umm.
sleep. So we can have the the
application implement, you know,
saying like, it'll give them the
notification like 5 hours before
or 4 hours before, like, that's
the last time they can have the
nicotine for or the caffeine for
the night.
I think even the five hours like
timing is too less like I think
if they want to sleep at night,
like sound sleep, the last
caffeine intake should be around
in the afternoon like 2:00 PM or
Umm.
3:00 PM. If they're sleeping at
10 or 11 because it's still
remains in the body and it
affects your sleep to a large
Umm.
extent. Like, you know, you
don't get a like quality sleep.
And it also depends on
individual to individual like.
Different individuals.
So how sensitive is their body
towards caffeine? Actually I I I
I I know people who like drink
like four or five cups of coffee
a day or like even on top of
that day. On top of that they
even consume energy drinks but
still they have a good night's
rest. But for me the problem is
like I'm I think I'm very much
caffeine sensitive.
So even two cups of coffee
affects me a lot.
Can you tell me about the time
you had a particularly good
night's sleep? What factors
contributed to to that
experience?
Yeah, like I remember like
couple of days back. I tried
cannabis.
Umm.
In the form of.
Do you mean like CBD oil, right?
Not not the CBD oil, but.
I don't know if it's any
appropriate to say on the
interview or not. Like I smoked
up.
It's not.
So yeah, I smoked up and that
day.
That day I had a very good night
rest. I woke up feeling
refreshed.
And and organize the next day.
So yeah, after I I felt like
after so many years I had a good
night rest.
And what can you tell like what
factors contributed in that
experience?
I just smoked up. I don't know
that I just smoked up and it it
made me calm.
And there was no anxiety at all.
So I slept really well last
night and the next morning, I
woke up feeling refreshed.
So yeah, that's what I'm saying.
So the factors can be you
And.
weren't anxious, you were like.
Yeah, I was calm. I went and she
was. There was no work thinking
You know.
at all.
So yeah.
Used.
Do you share a bed with your
partner or a roommate?
No, I sleep on them.
Because there's sleep shade like
alright.
Are there any other factors or
information you think will be
important for us to consider
when designing an app to promote
healthy sleeping habits?
I think I like.
For uh, if if it's a app, can
track if the person is anxious
on like the anxiety level or the
stress level, the cortisol
levels, how much or basal levels
is that they're in their body?
Which is affecting the speed
because you know stress and
cortisol level anxiety. It also
affects the speed.
So if the app can track that as
well, like how much a person is
in the stress or anxious.
So that would be of.
Much help?
Anything else that you like to
add?
Umm.
At the moment, Doctor, because
these are the some of the issues
I face.
Uh, yeah.
I mentioned them all.
And.
How do you feel about the
alarms?
The traditional arms that we are
using.
Are they helpful?
They are like they they just
mean like they're just for
waking you up.
So I don't know because I
haven't used any smart alarm as
of now to be honest.
So I don't know how much good or
better they are, like how much
they have been promised on the
traditional alarm.
And as you mentioned, like you
said multiple alarms, so do you
often hit the snooze button when
the alarm is present?
Hmm yeah.
I lived there like I did it. I
do it every time.
All right.
So it's like you snooze and you
go back to sleep and then alarm
again, you know it was is.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, it buzzes again.
Then again, I wake up and I
soon.
And then 3/4 times like I wake
up.
After 3-4 alarms.
And.
What activities do you do you?
What do you prefer when you wake
up?
Umm I.
Like, are you on your phone? Do
you like, do yoga? Do you
meditate or something?
No, because uh.
Or it's the social media.
Do you like this with me?
Instagram or something?
Like most. Yeah, yeah, I just
scroll social media Instagram
because I have to get ready and
I have to run quickly to my like
place of work or university.
So I don't have time to do like
I I I intend to do meditation
like when I'm back up, wake up
in the morning. I intend to do
meditation or some sort of yoga,
but I don't get any time because
I'm like, already running out of
time. I've been I I need to
reach the university or whether
my workplace.
So I just have to run.
All right. That's all for now.
Do you have any questions or
would you like to add anything
else to your responses?
And.
I think you have covered pretty
much.
Everything so.
There is nothing I would like to
add much, but yeah.
Also, like even purely in
future, if you would like you
Yeah.
have the e-mail address and the
name the contact information. So
in the future if you'd like to
do anything, it will be a great
Gosh.
help.
Yeah, sure, definitely.
Thank you for your time and.
Thank you so much. Thank you so
much for you.
Yeah, alright.
Bye bye.